Try to clean up clause-meaning. (#3896)
modelica/ModelicaSpecification: chapters/operatorsandexpressions.tex

Result and arguments shall have type \lstinline!Real! or \lstinline!Integer!.
If either of the arguments is \lstinline!Real! the result is \lstinline!Real! otherwise \lstinline!Integer!.
\begin{nonnormative}

> Note, outside of a \lstinline!when!-clause body state events are triggered when the return value changes discontinuously.

Reviewer: This reads slightly better to me:

```suggestion
Note, outside of \lstinline!when!-clause bodies, state events are triggered when the return value changes discontinuously.
```

Result and arguments shall have type \lstinline!Real! or \lstinline!Integer!.
If either of the arguments is \lstinline!Real! the result is \lstinline!Real! otherwise \lstinline!Integer!.
\begin{nonnormative}

> Note, outside of a \lstinline!when!-clause body state events are triggered when the return value changes discontinuously.

Reviewer: Similar:

```suggestion
Note, outside of \lstinline!when!-clause bodies, state events are triggered when the return value changes discontinuously.
```

Smallest integer not less than $x$.
Result and argument shall have type \lstinline!Real!.
\begin{nonnormative}

> Note, outside of a \lstinline!when!-clause body state events are triggered when the return value changes discontinuously.

Reviewer: Similar:

```suggestion
Note, outside of \lstinline!when!-clause bodies, state events are triggered when the return value changes discontinuously.
```

Largest integer not greater than $x$.
Result and argument shall have type \lstinline!Real!.
\begin{nonnormative}

> Note, outside of a \lstinline!when!-clause body state events are triggered when the return value changes discontinuously.

Reviewer: Similar:

```suggestion
Note, outside of \lstinline!when!-clause bodies, state events are triggered when the return value changes discontinuously.
```

The argument shall have type \lstinline!Real!.
The result has type \lstinline!Integer!.
\begin{nonnormative}

> Note, outside of a \lstinline!when!-clause body state events are triggered when the return value changes discontinuously.

Reviewer: Similar:

```suggestion
Note, outside of \lstinline!when!-clause bodies, state events are triggered when the return value changes discontinuously.
```

When no more round of model equation evaluation is triggered, the processing of the event is completed and the transient analysis may proceed forward in time.

For purposes of event iteration, each scalar expression in a \lstinline!when!-clause condition is treated as an implicit variable \lstinline!v!.

> Since a \lstinline!when!-clause body is triggered when \lstinline!v and not pre(v)!, the implicit variable is considered wrapped in \lstinline!pre($\ldots$)! and becomes part of the event iteration convergence criterion.

Reviewer: Triggered branch:

```suggestion
Since a \lstinline!when!-clause branch is triggered when \lstinline!v and not pre(v)!, the implicit variable is considered wrapped in \lstinline!pre($\ldots$)! and becomes part of the event iteration convergence criterion.
```

Author: As above I think that only the body is active/triggered, and the condition of the branch does the triggering.

Author: ```suggestion
Since a \lstinline!when!-clause branch triggers when \lstinline!v and not pre(v)!, the implicit variable is considered wrapped in \lstinline!pre($\ldots$)! and becomes part of the event iteration convergence criterion.
```

reinit($x$, $\mathit{expr}$)
\end{lstlisting}\end{synopsis}
\begin{semantics}

> In a \lstinline!when!-clause body, reinitializes $x$ with $\mathit{expr}$ at an event instant.

Reviewer: Slight scope creep, but this would be a better formulation:

```suggestion
Re-initializes $x$ with $\mathit{expr}$.
Only allowed in a \lstinline!when!-equation body, meaning that re-initialization will only occur at events.
```

$x$ is a scalar or array \lstinline!Real! variable that is implicitly defined to have \lstinline!StateSelect.always!.
\begin{nonnormative}
It is an error if the variable cannot be selected as a state.
\end{nonnormative}
$\mathit{expr}$ needs to be type-compatible with $x$.
\lstinline!reinit! can only be applied once for the same variable -- either as an individual variable or as part of an array of variables.

> It can only be applied in a \lstinline!when!-clause body in an equation section.

Reviewer: Isn't this sentence completely redundant?

```suggestion
```

Author: After the change above it clearly becomes redundant.

\item
  Expressions where all the subexpressions are discrete-time expressions.
\item

>   Expressions in the a \lstinline!when!-clause body, \lstinline!initial equation!, or \lstinline!initial algorithm!.

Reviewer: Typo:

```suggestion
  Expressions in a \lstinline!when!-clause body, \lstinline!initial equation!, or \lstinline!initial algorithm!.
```

  Expressions in functions not having annotation \lstinline!GenerateEvents = true! (\cref{modelica:GenerateEvents}), behave as though they were discrete-time expressions.
\end{itemize}

> Inside an \lstinline!if!-expression or in an \lstinline!if!-clause body, a \lstinline!while!-statement or a \lstinline!for!-clause, that is controlled by a non-discrete-time (that is continuous-time, but not discrete-time) switching expression and not in the \lstinline!when!-clause body, it is not legal to have assignments to discrete-time variables, equations between discrete-time expressions, or real elementary relations/functions that should generate events.

Reviewer: To speak of assignments inside an `if`-expression makes no sense.

The extremely complicated needs to be simplified and improved regardless:
```suggestion
The following rule applies to \lstinline!while!-statements and \lstinline!for!-clauses inside an \lstinline!if!-clause body, except when also inside a \lstinline!when!-clause body.
When such a \lstinline!while!-statement or \lstinline!for!-clause is controlled by a non-discrete-time (that is continuous-time, but not discrete-time) switching expression, it is not legal to contain assignments to discrete-time variables, equations between discrete-time expressions, or real elementary relations/functions that should generate events.
```

> Inside an \lstinline!if!-expression; or in an \lstinline!if!-clause body, a \lstinline!while!-statement, or a \lstinline!for!-clause, that is controlled by a non-discrete-time (that is continuous-time, but not discrete-time) switching expression and not in the \lstinline!when!-clause body, it is not legal to have assignments to discrete-time variables, equations between discrete-time expressions, or real elementary relations/functions that should generate events.

Reviewer: Strange use of semicolon and commas:

```suggestion
Inside an \lstinline!if!-expression or in an \lstinline!if!-clause body, a \lstinline!while!-statement or a \lstinline!for!-clause, that is controlled by a non-discrete-time (that is continuous-time, but not discrete-time) switching expression and not in the \lstinline!when!-clause body, it is not legal to have assignments to discrete-time variables, equations between discrete-time expressions, or real elementary relations/functions that should generate events.
```

At least I think this makes the extremely complicated sentence a bit easier to parse…
